In the face of rapidly declining global biodiversity, rigorous species delimitation is increasingly essential for the formulation of effective biodiversity conservation strategies.  However, by one estimate, only 14% of the estimated 8.7 million species are known to science (https://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-14616161  – that is formally named in accordance with the rules established by International commissions of nomenclature.  This shortfall is not only a result of an insufficient number of experts and their unbalanced distribution across the globe and taxonomic groups, but also inefficient and antiquated taxonomic practices that if anything have become more ponderous since the time of Linnaeus. Traditional taxonomy and “integrative” approaches to species delimitation and description need to become more efficient.

Two of the most labour-intensive taxonomic tasks are formal species descriptions and the assembling of the material examined (a summary of the specimens included in the study, including status (types), locality, collector, repositories, etc.). Here we present two codes that will organize data on Excel spreadsheets into text suitable for incorporation into taxonomic revisions.  The first (r-species-descriptions) will transform morphological attributes for each species into text that can in formatted for a species description and the second (r-material- examined) will transform and specimen-level inventory of species records into a organized summary statement that can be formatted for a material examined account.
Each code in presented in a separate folder which includes:  the R-code, a sample Excel input file, a sample Excel output file, and a formatted text file.

1. r-species-descriptions.  Code to import a CSV file of species and attributes generated by Lucid and extract species descriptions for taxonomic publications.

2. r-material examined.  Code to import an Excel spreadsheet of specimens (including species, sex, type status, location, etc.) and extract material examined summaries for taxonomic publications.

